page about asset compression (#645)
humanmade/altis-cloud: docs/cdn/asset-compression.md

## How do we compress assets?

Assets are compressed using GZIP for browsers which indicate support for it. This includes all modern browsers on desktop and mobile platforms. Like other responses, compressed assets are cached on the CDN for faster delivery to subsequent requests.

We compress the following static assets (based on [MIME type](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Media_type)):

* Plain text (`text/plain`)
* CSS files (`text/css`)
* HTML files (`text/html`)
* JavaScript & JSON files (`application/json`, `application/javascript`, `application/x-javascript`, `text/javascript`)
* XML files (including RSS & SVG) (`text/xml`, `application/xml`, `application/xml+rss`, `image/svg+xml`)
* Font files (`application/x-font-ttf`, `font/opentype`, `application/vnd.ms-fontobject`)

Images are compressed, optimised, and cached separately, through support for [dynamic images](https://docs.altis-dxp.com/media/dynamic-images/). Optimised and resized images are created on the fly, and then cached at the CDN layer for a year.

For browsers which support it, images will be automatically converted to [WebP](https://developers.google.com/speed/webp/) format.

## What about Brotli compression?

> [Brotli](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Brotli) is a modern compression algorithm developed by Google to replace gzip with higher compression ratios. [Support for Brotli is available in all modern browsers](https://caniuse.com/brotli), constituting ~96% of users.
> 
> Brotli can provide a meaningful boost to compression for non-image assets like JavaScript or CSS. Altis has partial support for Brotli at the CDN layer. Support for dynamic (`text/html`) responses is not currently available.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[Brotli](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Brotli) is a modern compression algorithm developed by Google to replace gzip with higher compression ratios. [Support for Brotli is available in all modern browsers](https://caniuse.com/brotli), constituting ~96% of users. Brotli can provide a meaningful boost to compression for non-image assets like JavaScript or CSS.

Altis has partial support for Brotli at the CDN layer. Support for dynamic (`text/html`) responses is not currently available.
```

> # Asset Compression Strategy

Reviewer: Suggest also renaming the file to `compression-optimisation.md`

```suggestion
# Compression & Optimisation
```

### What and why compress assets?

> 

Reviewer: Levels are wrong here (should be `##`), but suggest removing this title entirely and combining with opening statement.

Author: Cool. Updated.

> For faster load speeds of your page, static assets are compressed at server, and then uncompressed by an end users browser. This is a contributing factor to SEO scores, but generally good practice to help reduce overall bandwidth usage. 

Reviewer 2: "compressed at the server"
"uncompressed by a visitor's browser"

> Those static assets include .js or CSS files, images, and also the generated HTML files of your site.

Reviewer 2: ".js and CSS files"

### How do we compress assets?

> Assets are compressed using GZIP and is done via NGINX. When they’re sent as a response to a request they’ll also then be cached at the CDN for faster delivery of that assets to subsequent requests.

Reviewer 2: "that asset"

> Assets are compressed using GZIP and is done via NGINX. When they’re sent as a response to a request that asset will also be cached at the CDN for faster delivery of that assets to subsequent requests.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Assets are compressed using GZIP for browsers which indicate support for it. This includes all modern browsers on desktop and mobile platforms. Like other responses, compressed assets are cached on the CDN for faster delivery to subsequent requests.
```

The [MIME types](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Media_type) we compress are listed below.

`text/plain, text/css, text/html, application/json, application/javascript, application/x-javascript, text/xml, application/xml, application/xml+rss, text/javascript, application/x-font-ttf, font/opentype, application/vnd.ms-fontobject, image/svg+xml`

> Images are compressed and cached separately, as we leverage [Dynamic Image Resizing](https://docs.altis-dxp.com/media/dynamic-images/), the Images are created on the fly, and then cached at the CDN layer for serving the image. Images will attempt to be served via `[WebP](https://developers.google.com/speed/webp/)` format if the browser supports it, falling back to the image default format.

Reviewer 2: "if the browser supports [WebP](link...), images will be served in that format, falling..."

### I’ve heard of Brotli compression, and doesn’t it offer better compression?

> It can provide a meaningful boost to compression for non-image assets like javascript or CSS. But support for Brotli compression is only partially supported.

Reviewer 2: "support for ... supported"?? Should this be "support for Brotli is only partially implemented" or "not supported by all browsers"? Or even "support for Brotli is still patchy/inconsistent"?

> If you’re do want to use Brotli for compression we can enable Brotli for on-the-fly compression at the CDN layer, but with the exception of the MIME type of `text/html` which will have to be compressed with GZIP, due to the dynamic nature of the HTML generation.

Reviewer 2: "if you want..."
"...but not for the MIME type `text/html` which is dynamically generated at the server and compressed with `gzip`."

> To enable Brotli for on-the-fly compression at the CDN layer (with the exception of the MIME type of `text/html` which will have to be compressed with GZIP), make a request to [Altis Support](https://docs.altis-dxp.com/guides/getting-help-with-altis/).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Brotli support on Altis is currently available on an opt-in basis. To enable Brotli on your application, contact [Altis Support](https://docs.altis-dxp.com/guides/getting-help-with-altis/).
```

> ### Further reading:

Reviewer: Suggest eliminating this section, and only having inline links.

Reviewer: I'd drop the whole further reading, yeah; we can link inline where relevant.
